What are the tools that we can put in
the hands of people that will give them
that sense of empowerment?
That's what I would love to work on. I'm
not into this anthropomorphizing AI at
all. I come at it as it's a tool. There
is going to be a job called a software
engineer. It's going to be different.
When I look at it, you are really taking
a software engineer and saying you're
now a software architect.
It's my pleasure to welcome the chairman
and CEO of Microsoft, Satcha Nadella.
[Applause]
[Music]
Thank you.
This is the home crowd. All right, man.
San Francisco, you should move to
Seattle.
I started my career in Seattle. Very
fantastic place. Anyone who's successful
starts at Microsoft. That's right.
So Satcha, you've uh emphasized before
that AI is uh going to shape all that we
do. What does this look like in
practice? Um you know at Microsoft, how
does this actually drive your strategy?
And particularly thinking about how AI
will influence ideas behind beyond, you
know, the immediate incredible product
suite, you know, like the broader
economy at Microsoft, I I feel we are a
platform company,
uh, a product company and, uh, a partner
company. So I I think of those three
dimensions and I've kind of in my 35
years I've lived through uh client
client server uh web internet mobile
cloud this is the fourth so that's just
at least how I pattern match so the
first thing that I think about is the
platform opportunity uh when I sort of
look at all the folks here
the interesting thing is the compounding
effects of all these platforms right So
this AI piece the reason why I think the
rate of diffusion is so fast so well um
you know and so wide is because it
builds on the previous generation. I
think about like if the cloud was not
there uh we wouldn't have been able to
build the AI supercomputers
which then led to the models which then
led to the products right so that
compounding effect is the interesting
thing to me so that's why you always
sort of take the previous platform and
build the next platform and you want to
be able to get that right and then you
got to build the next generation
products on top of it right with each
one of these platform shifts there's a
workload right I mean when I first
remember looking at the large scale
training job I mean it's kind of a very
different workload to what we built for
example the cloud with right it's a data
parallel synchronous workload which is
so different than let's say a Hadoop job
or what have you um and so the platform
itself then completely gets re you know
completely relitigated and changed uh so
to me that's I think the exciting thing
on the platform side it's golden age of
system software uh quite But frankly um
you know today if I had to think about
anybody who's building at the
infrastructure layer not just the
hyperscalers but even the startups I
think that's a tremendous opportunity.
Obviously there's a tremendous
opportunity in the model side and then
the products on top of it. So yeah we
think of these and then ultimately
what's it for? It's for one thing and
one thing alone which is to drive
ultimately economic growth and GDP
growth. So if I had to ask me my
benchmark for AI is is it creating
surplus in the world around us one
community one country one industry one
company at a time I mean it seems like
the app level you know you guys have
built you know sort of the defining apps
at the app layer for so many decades. It
feels like we're at this weird lumpy
moment where um you know maybe the
models have popped up and we're sort of
astonished by what's happening but then
you know sort of the compute and the
apps need to actually catch up and you
know the hope here is actually the
people in this room will be the the
people who build those apps. Yeah, it's
a it's a good question, right? One of
the questions is is the model like uh
SQL
uh or is it the SAS app itself and the
model, right? I mean, I think the place
where where does the model end and where
does the product begin? Um because if
you sort of say model with some
scaffolding and tool calling uh in some
infinite loop is the product u if that
is what it is then I think that that's
where it gets a little confusing but
that's like saying a bunch of SQL
business logic is with SQL is what is an
app. So I think it's still possible for
anyone to build uh an app tier on top of
a model and you have to sort of abstract
yourself and say yeah the model is just
like SQL uh was to me and so I think
that that I mean I always dreamt of a
moment when AI/Machine learning will
have a SQL moment because if you think
about it right we never had a stable
platform layer in the past because
everything was vertically built and
integrated for the first time in this
model layer. Now we have something like
a SQL engine uh that we can then use to
build pretty sophisticated products and
these techniques also right I mean just
the inference time compute plus tool
calling is giving us I think a pretty
robust harness to be able to build
pretty sophisticated products. Yeah,
it's kind of wild how much uh it's the
integration piece that is also the app
layer now. Yeah, it's uh just you know
the the models sitting on their own are
incredibly smart but uh right now they
feel you know sort of there's just just
giant gulf between that and uh the data
that really matters to you for business
users. I think that's a good observation
because I think at least my read of the
situation is the model is an important
piece. Um the model scaffolding and all
this tool calling this uh you know sort
of there's a real app server that you
kind of need in order to be able to
build sophisticated applications. But
the interesting thing is the feedback
loop the data path inside the product
that then is used in order to post train
in order to be able to do the right tool
uh you know selection. Um that seems to
be the place where product creation uh
is all going to happen. Um AI scaling
laws are continuing to hold and the
demand for intelligence appears to be
potentially infinite. Uh yesterday Elon
was mentioning that there will be uh you
know 99 hyper intelligent beings to one
human which is kind of a a wild
prognostication but seems possible given
this where does the the building for the
future of AI truly demand for global uh
compute infrastructure you know how do
you anticipate these demands evolving as
models don't just become larger but more
intelligent and capable of complex
multi-agent interactions yeah I mean
look If you sort of really step back and
say um you know first if you sort of go
with the uh you know compute or
intelligence is what of a log of compute
um and then you ask the question um how
much energy does compute consume let's
take in the United States maybe 2% today
3% tops let's say doubles it's 6%.
That's like massive because then uh the
amount of extra energy that needs to be
produced um in order for AI uh to use it
is pretty high. I think that's why we
all have to sort of keep in mind that if
there's one lesson history has taught us
is that if you're going to use energy,
you better have social permission to use
energy. Uh so that means you've got to
make sure that the output of this AI is
socially useful. Uh in other words, if
we really are not creating social
surplus, economic surplus as measured by
countries and communities, uh then we
will we just can't consume energy. And
so that to me is the bigger thing like
everybody's today hot and bothered about
okay, what do I do about energy
production? I think the real question in
the next 5 years is we've got to produce
enough products that are creating great
value which I'm very confident of right
by by the way in healthcare and
education in uh in productivity. So
there's many many domains but that's the
real challenge for us as a tech industry
is to prove unequivocally
that what we have created is showing up
in real stats uh that is not just an AGI
or AI benchmark. I mean the hope is that
um this will show up in sort of the real
things that you sort of interact with on
a daily basis that 100% you know you go
use you you get a mortgage loan and
instead of you know three months or two
months of waiting around and you don't
know if you're going to get approved or
you know there's just so many things
that are important parts of your life
that you know get drowned in paperwork
or bureaucracy that those things could
potentially go away. 100%. So I think
yeah if you take even take some of the
the the public services right I mean if
you take any country you know its GDP or
take health care like in the United
States what is it 18 19% of our cost is
uh healthcare and a lot of it like
everybody talks about the magical drug
blah blah blah except all of the cost is
in workflow
um and so if you really take something
like a simple thing like discharge uh
the amount like you take the back end of
an EMR system with a just a an LLM and a
prompt. Uh that itself is going to save
so much time and money and energy that
it would sort of pay for itself. I mean,
it's kind of very direct, right? You
spend an incredible amount of GDP on
health care and rightly so. But uh every
dollar that's spent on clerical work
could have been spent towards some sort
of treatment that would have saved
someone's life or or or the simple time
allocation of a physician away from
paperwork to the patient uh is right
there to be had. What do you see as
being the biggest rate limiter for AI
deployment today? See, here's the
interesting thing, right? And this
audience is so young that and none of my
metaphors would sort of work. But
nevertheless, if you sort of were came
in um in the early part of uh you know
let's say you were a multinational
company preps
how the heck did we do forecasts uh like
a simple sales forecast? The way one
would do sales forecast was you would
send faxes. People would then take those
faxes and send inter office memos and
those inter office memos would be
annotated and a forecast would come
hopefully before the quarter end. And
then suddenly people said with email and
PCs and Excel they said let's print your
like let me just send an Excel
spreadsheet in email people enter number
and you have a forecast. So what
happened was the work the work artifact
and the work flow changed. That is what
needs to happen with AI. when someone
says I I I I'm going to now do my job
but with whatever 99 agents that I am
directing on my behalf the workflow is
not going to be constant uh right I mean
you now are really going to have to
change even the scope of your job is
going to change so that change
management is a real rate limiter right
because you're now taking the means of
production in an insurance company in a
financial services company in a
healthcare company in a software company
and saying we are going to change
everything uh in the way we work in fact
we're going to change what jobs they are
like you know at LinkedIn I think they
took multiple of these functions uh the
design function the front-end engineer
function the product function put them
all together and said we're going to
have full stack builders uh that's a
change in scope of even a job and so how
do you then rebuild the product team
with new roles new scopes and what have
you. That's to me more the social rate
limiter. Not that there's lots of other
things around deployment of this
technology, getting it out to the world,
power is one, there are other issues,
but I would say change management when I
look at even a lot of the AI startups
when I talk to them, everyone has now
you know you worked at Palunteer so you
know this uh everyone has forward
deployment engineers. That's like the
exciting thing is the palunteer model
which I think is a fantastic model and
why is that? That is because of that
change management. Uh because I think
you really need to help customers
partners really understand the benefits
of any product you're creating but not
just the technology but even how to use
the technology in a workflow. At YC, we
have this uh funny saying that we tell a
lot of people here to do, which is um
you know, these are some of the smartest
uh AI researchers, computer scientists
who are just starting out in their
careers. We tell them uh go undercover.
So go work as a medical biller and see
to what degree how many you know quote
unquote knowledge work jobs are actually
copying pasting from a browser into a
spreadsheet into an email and then
clicking send and do that for a while
and realize like actually these are not
necessarily you know using your
prefrontal cortex and your highest mind
kind of jobs like these are not you know
can you imagine so many people like
their lives are basically like you We
used to we used to, you know, coming up
uh at our age, we would call it paper
pushing, but you know, they're not paper
pushing anymore, but they're sending
emails. You know, they're not sending
faxes anymore, but they're trying to get
business done by like attaching files to
things. You know, that seems like a
pretty big shift actually that they can
Yeah. I mean I I mean I think one of the
most understated things as an
opportunity for anyone creating products
or fundamental breakthroughs
um even at the model layer is the amount
of drudgery there is in knowledge work
right I mean I mean in software
engineering we saw that I mean the
amount of you know we're taking the joy
out of software engineering because you
know you were out of your flow uh to be
able to stay in the flow to be able to
complete a task uh that itself is a
great example of what I think is going
to happen to all knowledge work. You're
absolutely right. The amount of cycles
you spend out of band uh collecting
information because if you think about
the prefrontal cortex and the synthesis
part uh you know the amount of time you
spend there is pretty low now like
having a sophisticated reasoning model
and your prefrontal cortex work
together. Uh whereas a lot of the
mundane stuff is getting done by even
some ka agent or what have you. That I
think is definitely the frontier.
So beyond simply adopting AI tools, uh
what are the biggest transformational
shifts you're seeing in the field today?
I think to me um even like I mean look
this field is changing so rapidly right
I had not even imagined last year even
this time that we would get this far
with RL um and with basically test time
compute. uh and it seems sort of pretty
limitless. So the way I think about it
is pre-training worked. Uh all the
post-training techniques on top of it
were fantastic. Then this inference time
compute seems to have really added uh in
under a massive scaling law. So now I'm
interested in whether there is some new
algorithmic breakthrough. uh because I
always say this entire regime could be
changed by one person here who comes up
and says I have a more efficient thing
to do or a way to do this stuff right so
that's you have to be open-minded that
the last big breakthrough
algorithmically has not yet been found
uh so that's one um I'm always sort of
interested in that the other one is what
is the next step up uh right because
what is the pre-training to RL
um the end toend training loop that's
the next you know big sample uh that I
think is also what I think will happen
in the next year uh so I would say what
if that is another scaling law
breakthrough because we will be like if
you sort of take any lab now all of us I
think will be working on saying what's a
more integrated response reasoning model
that we can build u and that I think is
going to be the interesting piece
there's something very interesting here
I think in that uh if you think about
like an LLM instance as a consciousness
which I think some people are starting
to say uh you know it's sort of
instantiated you do a bunch of work with
it and then it sort of goes away and you
open a new chat box and it's you know I
guess I'm curious like do you think that
that might be one of the things that
needs the loop needs to be completed
right that like yeah I mean so I'm not
sort of I don't to me this artificial
intelligence is unfortunately the worst
name we could have ever picked. And so
I'm not into this anthropomorphizing AI
at all. I mean I think of it more I come
at it as it's a tool. It's not trying to
replicate how we think. Uh it is it it's
definitely showing signs of intelligence
but it's not uh intelligence that I have
and I think of human agency still will
matter will be there and we will sort of
use these as tools. So that's kind of my
position. That said, let's just say oh
yeah, a memory system uh is a good
thing. Uh these things do need if I look
at the next frontier, I would say there
are three things, right? One is memory.
Uh the other one is tools used. And then
the third which I think is perhaps the
most important thing is entitlements. Uh
which is basically if I'm going to take
action, what entitlements do I have to
take action? Right? So these three
systems have to be built as first class
around the model in order for us to
build more sophisticated applications.
One of the uh arguments people are
starting to make around the future of
software is well we have the database
and then you're going to have uh
basically middleware that is you know I
think you know what you call
entitlements you it's kind of like
access control list like you know what's
the business logic who gets to do what
and then you know you you basically put
the agent on top there um you is that
sort of that's right so that that's why
I think about like know people say when
you think about the scaffolding layer
right you have a model plus scaffold
scaffolding the scaffolding now really
gets first class by thinking of these
three things uh tools use is one memory
is one and then entitlements and you put
that stuff together then you can create
an agent an agent has an ID uh agent has
management and provision control on it
it has you know so that's the way I
think to think about it do you worry
with codeg genen like would do you think
users at some point will just prefer to
uh make software just in time instead of
using package software. I mean that's
something that uh you know we having
lots of conversations in the hallway
about that because a lot of us in this
room you know YC will actually fund a
ton of SAS and will continue to do so
but you know in the background we're
starting to have that worry. There's
some venture capitalist friends of mine
who are in the audience. They're
actually like I actually don't know if I
can continue to fund B2B SAS. How do you
think about that? Yeah, it's a great
question. I mean you know it's it's
interesting. Um at the same time uh I
look at the number of people who are
forking VS code and I say man we must
have done something right. Um
and u so therefore there is something to
be said about building a great um uh IDE
um in fact when I think about Excel I
think of it as an IDE. Uh so the fact
that there's a great canvas uh you can
then then bring let's call it the best
analyst model to this IDE uh and then
create a loop between the canvas and the
uh model. Uh so I think yes you can
generate applications just in time uh
you could have a prefabbed application
that is really helping with the feedback
loop to the model and I think both of
these things will exist together. Do you
think there's a role for design in all
of this? I mean, basically a h, you
know, a human being sitting in front of
VS Code uh is sort of like the
translator between, you know, the
software and what the end user really
wants. And then I think some of this
idea that software goes away presupposes
that just, you know, normal people
walking around are going to want to
create software. And, you know, I don't
know if that's going to work. I think
that's a good point. So I think the way
I sort of say um because one of the the
basic question you're asking is what
happens to software engineering right I
mean that's the let's take the following
uh thought experiment right if you sort
of said some Martian intelligence came
um in uh the 1980s and watched how we
all worked oh wow these humans kind of
work in the offices and they have a
typist pool they have a slide pool and
people then work with paper And then if
they came back today they'll say god man
all eight billion people are typists now
right I mean that's what they'll uh sort
of you know surmise and so I think what
I think will happen is all of us are
going to be creating software but there
is going to be a job called a software
engineer it's going to be different but
I look at it right you you you are
really taking a software engineer and
saying you're now a software architect
right see the I I still the
metacognition of your I mean one of my
biggest things is man Wipe coding is
fantastic until it does stuff that I
don't know what the heck happened. Uh so
that means I have to have the meta model
of my repo and exactly what happened and
I'm looking at the change logs right. So
when I look at the my favorite feature
of GitHub now is to really look at the
complete change logs of all the agents
that are working on my repo. uh and I
think that is where a a lot of the
software engineering will be like a good
dev manager right I don't know who which
dev manager you worked at Microsoft but
I really looked and and a dev manager's
job was to make sure builds don't break
and the code has got good quality um and
so to me that is still a thing uh and so
there will be a level of abstraction
uplift uh even in a world of all of AI
agents because one thing that we don't
talk about is the legal liability by the
way until some real laws change are
going to be with humans and institutions
humans build. Um, and as long that is
true, we're going to have to really make
sure the human is in the loop uh at a
fundamental level. And that means we
will need a lot of tools for humans to
be in the loop in order to figure out
what these things are doing. In AI
development, you see so much, you know,
what do you think is underestimated and
uh, you know, and what is overhyped by
the broader tech industry from where
you're sitting? It's not short of
overhyping. Let me just put it that way,
right? We're at the uh everything is AI
all the time. So, it's good. Uh you
know, for us all in this industry, we
live and die by our ability to get into
a frenzy about something new, right?
What is the Steve Jobs thing or the Bob
Dylan thing, which is you're either busy
being born or busy dying. It's better to
be being busy being born. So, that's
good. The I think the thing that we have
to most um worry about and most work on
as a as a tech community I would say is
that how do we earn that social
permission? If there is one thing that I
feel to me one of the demos I saw which
completely really blew me away was I
think in the beginning of 23
um when I was in India and I saw a local
developer Daisy chain essentially at
that time either GPD3 or 35 uh with one
of these India stack speechto text
texttospech uh open-source things and
then showed a local Indian farmer who
was able to sort of use a a chatbot that
was built in WhatsApp uh to be able to
get some agricultural subsidy, right? Uh
by going to a government website. That
to me was unbelievable, right? I I I
felt like, man, how could something that
was built in the west coast of the
United States get to a real use case
that fast uh thanks to sort of the
diffusion rate and basically people uh
everywhere. That is the story that needs
to be told uh right at scale. Uh that is
the underhyped story I think because
right now the overhyped thing is the
model capability and the model
capability is fantastic but man if we
can somehow get the world to recognize
that this is making a real difference in
the lives of people everywhere we're in
good shape. If that doesn't happen, this
is all about some valuations of us uh
our companies and our industry and it's
the same repeat then that is not going
to end well. I love that example. Um I
mean you can I don't it feels like
Microsoft is sort of full of examples of
things that uh lower the floor so that
you know a lot more people can get
access to technology. I mean you could
argue go GitHub Copilot is one of the
biggest. Yeah. By the way, one of the
other ones just you brought it up. There
was a World Bank study they did, I think
in Nigeria and now they've taken it to
Peru or Chile, one of those in in South
America. It's, you know, we've been
working at Microsoft forever on can
there be an intervention in education,
right? That's been the dream, man. We've
been at it at it for decade after decade
and it's made a difference. uh but this
study said by access to something like a
co-pilot is probably the best tech
intervention in education uh in Africa
or in Latin America and that's you know
that's been the dream I think that we've
all had in tech and it's right there
within our grasp I guess are there any
um interesting observations I'm curious
because you know your co-pilot in
Windows is uh you know often you know
here in tech like maybe people are
really obsessed with the latest frontier
models, but it's easy to forget like you
know Windows and the integration with
Windows is actually the first
interaction people have with uh you know
pre- AGI sort of AI today. Are there any
observations from like people using that
and like Yeah. No, we're very very
excited about Clippy being back as
co-pilot.
Uh but seriously, I mean like look at to
me um the the thing that I find
is even in the form factor that we know
and love and uh work in which is a good
old computer with a mouse and a
keyboard, right? The dream has always
been in fact the first research group
Bill built at Microsoft research was
speech
um in 1995. Um, and so since then we've
been saying, God, like when will speech
be first class on PCs. But right now
with Copilot, the two things that are
just pretty surreal to me, it's kind of
like a new browser moment, right? There
is both vision and speech. I leave it on
all the time. It can see what I see and
I can speak to it. That seems like a
precision mouse movement, right, to me,
right? So that is where I think even on
existing form factors there is a way to
change uh the complete computer use and
then there will be new form factors
right uh so I think it's an exciting
time to be building uh both hardware and
modifying existing hardware for what is
I think possible in terms of computer
use yeah computer use is fascinating in
that I mean you have the intelligence
and then computer use is actually the
superset of uh all the data like your
personal data, your work data, your you
know all your office docs like
everything is accessible right there.
Was uh the movie her correct and that
you know literally the operating system
is going to embed itself with uh your
most trusted agent. Yeah, I mean I think
that has been the dream which is can
these agents become your computers. Um
and they do the computer use for you. Uh
and that absolutely I think is the
direction of travel. Uh and I think you
mentioned the most operative thing which
is trust. Uh which is can I trust this
to delegate what I want and that means
it's about precision. uh it is about
sort of uh the privacy uh it's about a
lot of these considerations and I think
that these all will in time will have to
work out. I mean in that respect you
know when you look at um you know both
your company and you could argue Apple
they sort of have to be on the front
lines of protecting privacy for all
computer users in the world actually.
Yeah. I mean so to us you know there are
many it's not even sort of there's
privacy there is security there's
sovereignty these are three big big
considerations right privacy every user
cares about it uh security is what every
tenant or every customer will care about
it on top of privacy and then every
country will care about sovereignty
security and privacy so that's the way
to think about it right so you really
need to build any product or any system
you need to be able to answer the
questions on for the people and for
organizations and for countries how you
cross all those three boundaries. Sachi,
you've had an absolutely extraordinary
journey at Microsoft starting as an
engineer all the way up to CEO. What
lessons from that path would you share
for the next generation of builders?
It's not like um you start any journey
um with sort of a specific goal of where
you want to end up but you do start uh
with this uh goal of taking the first
spot and sort of having the highest
ambition for yourself on what you want
to get done. Right? I always say u it's
not like uh I was waiting to become CEO
to do my best work. The first job I had
uh I felt was the greatest job I could
ever have when I joined the company in
'92. I felt like w if I retired in that
job that would be fantastic. Um and that
was a great mental model when I look
back at it, right? Which is it's not I
was not waiting for my next promotion to
do something but using the opportunity I
was given to do everything I could. Um
and I think that that's what uh people
who are starting out or who are founders
or who are researchers or students today
have. And so I would say keep that
alive. Uh don't wait for the next big
thing. You take the thing that you have
as the biggest thing and then make it
expansive. Um and then the other thing
that I would say is big things are
achieved uh by having a team around you.
uh learn how to work in teams, making
teams great. Uh one of the things that I
feel at Microsoft I learned was what it
means to be in a project, what it means
to work. In fact, that's kind of the big
difference between school and work is
that right, which is you join a team. Um
and you got to figure out you how to
make the team successful. the incentives
are actually pretty clear except I think
the thing that is least thought uh is
how do you really make sure you can
compose as a team and what's your role
in it. Every one of us sort of looks and
say somebody else's job is to align the
team. It's your job to align the team.
So I would say if you get those two
things high ambition for your own
impact, how to work in a team and make a
team effective that's magical. Uh here's
a fun story. Um, I actually did learn
how to uh do product management and
project management as a PM on Windows
Mobile. And uh when I was employee
number 10 at Palunteer, I taught them uh
actually how to run a project zero bug
bounds and you know all of the sort of
you know my PM training at Microsoft
turned into the thing that created you
know how even Palunteer uh you know runs
their product org today which is pretty
wild. So, you know, thank you to
Microsoft for that. Um, I'm curious, you
know, what are the qualities that you
look for in uh, you know, sort of people
and teams just because AI is becoming a
really key piece of, you know, creative
work and engineering work. Um, it's sort
of changing the way even you might
interview someone and evaluate them for
technical or, you know, broader skills.
Yeah. I mean, look, I I I'm always
looking for
uh three qualities in people. Um, one
is, uh, in fact, you know, Bill turned
me on to this, which is he was
describing at one point who are good
architects and who are bad architects.
And he had this, you know, nice way to
uh, uh, summarize it, which is good
architects uh, bring clarity and bad
architects bring confusion, right? Even
if they're equally smart. So I sort of
always go um to people who innately to
can drop into an ambiguous uncertain
situation and bring clarity uh it's an
understated quality right I mean you
just think about the number of
conversations you have in a day um about
some tough situation tough context uh
and people who can bring clarity on what
to do what to do next what's the next
step that's at a premium So I always am
looking for people who bring clarity in
uncertain times. The second thing I'm
looking for is people who create energy.
Uh right in the other words um it's like
not just they bring energy but they're
also really able to bring multiple
constituents. Right? Anybody who comes
to me as a leader at Microsoft who says
my team is great everybody else sucks.
That's not really useful. uh I need
people who can bring people together
across the company outside the company
create energy right innately and then
the last thing is people who are good at
solving over constrained problems that's
why I think my favorite interview
question always is um asking someone to
describe like a project they worked on
which really was going nowhere and they
figured out a path right and the way
they go about it uh problems solving uh
because essentially what are what do
people do who are successful? They take
an over constrained problem and figure
out how to unconstrain it. Um and that
magical sort of three things right which
is bringing clarity, creating energy and
driving success by solving over
constrained problems is what I think
leadership is about. But leadership is
not about something that you do later in
life. You do it every step of the way.
Uh I want to cover quantum briefly. I
mean you guys just released your um
Majorana 1 in February. Um is there an
interaction um with the future of AI and
you know I think there are probably some
quantum researchers in the house. So
curious what the future will be. Yeah to
me it's pretty exciting to see what's
happening. I mean we've been at it man
for like it's like I'm the third CEO at
Microsoft who's been writing checks on
quantum. Um
um and we've been at it for 20 plus
years and the dream at least or the
focus we always had was if we really
want to build a quantum quant computer
which is a general purpose computer uh
you got to solve u for really stable
cubits um and error corrected cubits um
so a fault tolerant quantum computer and
we bet on this bas basically a physical
property
which was envisioned by these Italian
physicists Mayorana and that is what uh
we went after and finally we've had a
physics breakthrough and we were able to
actually fabricate that particle and so
therefore uh that's what has led to this
chip. uh so we feel like one of the big
things that we needed to achieve uh has
been achieved and the way I think about
it is if you say um takes you know if
you want to understand the language of
nature which is simulation
um I think the best way to do it is
through a quantum computer because after
all uh you know physics and nature is
quantum and so therefore but AI is I
think of it as an emulator of that
simulator right so that's another way to
uh perhaps even use AI today with HPC.
In fact, a lot of what we are seeing is
pretty good advances in uh using um
basically HPC plus AI as a way to
accelerate advances in chemistry, in
physics, in material science. And so
quantum would be the next step in it.
But we're very excited about what AI
plus quantum and HPC in a loop can do.
Very cool. Uh we're running out of time.
I feel like we could go for another hour
if we if we had the time. Um, so just to
close, I just wanted to get your sense.
You know, let's do a simulation of a
sort. You know, you're uh 22 years old
and you're level 59 at Microsoft. You're
starting your career. You just
graduated. Um, what are you working on
given, you know, in 2025? You know, if
you started over knowing what you know
now, what would you be working on? How
would you be approaching it? you know
what would you be excited about? If you
look back at the history of Microsoft,
how office got built is a you know it's
an unbelievable uh story in the sense of
thinking of these tools um right a word
processor a spreadsheet
a slidem tool
um what those tools are meant to all of
us right I mean I mean ex I mean that's
why I always say what's your if somebody
asks me what's my favorite product it's
always you know VS code is one and the
other one is excel out. Uh it's just
your you feel so good when you use the
tool. It's all about the sense of
empowerment you have, the numbers sense
you have, the analytical power you have
with something simple like a spreadsheet
like what an unbelievable scaffolding uh
it is right uh columns and rows with
some sort of tuning machine in the
middle um is just breakthrough. And so I
would want to work on what are the next
set of tools like when I see even
copilot today that's kind of where I
feel like you know researcher analyst
creator these are like the word excel
powerpoint right every day I go to them
so to me that's what I would love to
what are the tools that we can put in
the hands of people that will give them
that sense of empowerment that's what I
would love to work on I have a feeling
the people who make those tools are
sitting in in this audience right now.
Please give it up for Sachin Nadella.
Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you.
Incredible.
[Music]